---
layout: post
title:  "73% of U.S. Small Business Reported Cyber Attacks Last Year"
date:   2024-05-20
categories: cybersecurity
---
A significant portion of small business leaders who responded to the Identity Theft Resource Center's 2023 Business Impact Survey reported experiencing cyberattacks, highlighting the presence of malicious actors causing substantial harm. The 2023 research recorded that 73% of breaches involved data, security, or both.


<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQGrrvNFLSoHSJz4bPF9OMQEd2dSS23Lo5Q2MN4Ha0qjyXLG6zpkPiqT32sKPRvpIHIFIDsfFSD8keo/pubhtml?gid=0&amp;single=true&amp;widget=true&amp;headers=false"></iframe>


Employee and consumer data continue to be the most impacted categories of information impacted by a breach. This is because these types of data often include sensitive information that can be used for identity theft, financial fraud, and other cybercrimes. 





In 2023, the main reasons for security breaches changed compared to the past years. Outside attackers, rogue employees, remote workers, and third-party vendors were the top culprits. Meanwhile, breaches caused by phishing and scams were more common, which is pretty much what's been happening everywhere.





The financial impacts of cyber breaches continued to drop compared to previous years, with more SMBs reporting losses of <$250,000 and fewer reporting higher dollar-value events. The trend of decreasing financial losses from cyberattacks shows improved cybersecurity measures and awareness among businesses. Several factors contribute to this decline: increased awareness, law enforcement efforts, and cybersecurity insurance. However, the threat remains significant, and businesses must prioritize cybersecurity.







Despite some progress, cyberattacks continue to pose a serious threat to small businesses. While the financial impact of cyber breaches has decreased, the impact on employee and consumer data remains significant. 


Looking forward in this era of technology-driven businesses, business managers face the challenge of striking a balance between cost-effectiveness and maximizing the returns on their IT investments. Solutions like Co-managed IT services have emerged as a strategic solution for growing companies. These services provide a dedicated focus on core operations while leveraging specialized knowledge and resources, enabling businesses to optimize their IT infrastructure strategically.

